README.md, before:

mlinspect
================================

[![mlinspect](https://img.shields.io/badge/🔎-mlinspect-green)](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-yellowgreen.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=KTMNPBV1ZZ)](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect)

Inspect ML Pipelines in Python in the form of a DAG

## Run mlinspect locally

Prerequisite: Python 3.9

1. Clone this repository
2. Set up the environment

	`cd mlinspect` <br>
	`python -m venv venv` <br>
	`source venv/bin/activate` <br>

3. If you want to use the visualisation functions we provide, install graphviz which can not be installed via pip

    `Linux: ` `apt-get install graphviz` <br>
    `MAC OS: ` `brew install graphviz` <br>
	
4. Install pip dependencies 

    `SETUPTOOLS_USE_DISTUTILS=stdlib pip install -e .[dev]` <br>

5. To ensure everything works, you can run the tests (without graphviz, the visualisation test will fail)

    `python setup.py test` <br>
    
## How to use mlinspect
mlinspect makes it easy to analyze your pipeline and automatically check for common issues.
```python
from mlinspect import PipelineInspector
from mlinspect.inspections import MaterializeFirstOutputRows
from mlinspect.checks import NoBiasIntroducedFor

IPYNB_PATH = ...

inspector_result = PipelineInspector\
        .on_pipeline_from_ipynb_file(IPYNB_PATH)\
        .add_required_inspection(MaterializeFirstOutputRows(5))\
        .add_check(NoBiasIntroducedFor(['race']))\
        .execute()

extracted_dag = inspector_result.dag
dag_node_to_inspection_results = inspector_result.dag_node_to_inspection_results
check_to_check_results = inspector_result.check_to_check_results
```

## Detailed Example
We prepared a [demo notebook](demo/feature_overview/feature_overview.ipynb) to showcase mlinspect and its features.

## Supported libraries and API functions
mlinspect already supports a selection of API functions from `pandas` and `scikit-learn`. Extending mlinspect to support more and more API functions and libraries will be an ongoing effort. However, mlinspect won't just crash when it encounters functions it doesn't recognize yet. For more information, please see [here](mlinspect/monkeypatching/README.md).

## Notes
* For debugging in PyCharm, set the pytest flag `--no-cov` ([Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34870962/how-to-debug-py-test-in-pycharm-when-coverage-is-enabled))

## Publications
* [Stefan Grafberger, Paul Groth, Julia Stoyanovich, Sebastian Schelter (2022). Data Distribution Debugging in Machine Learning Pipelines. The VLDB Journal — The International Journal on Very Large Data Bases (Special Issue on Data Science for Responsible Data Management).](https://stefan-grafberger.com/mlinspect-journal.pdf)
* [Stefan Grafberger, Shubha Guha, Julia Stoyanovich, Sebastian Schelter (2021). mlinspect: a Data Distribution Debugger for Machine Learning Pipelines. ACM SIGMOD (demo).](https://stefan-grafberger.com/mlinspect-demo.pdf)
* [Stefan Grafberger, Julia Stoyanovich, Sebastian Schelter (2020). Lightweight Inspection of Data Preprocessing in Native Machine Learning Pipelines. Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR).](https://stefan-grafberger.com/mlinspect-cidr.pdf)

## License
This library is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License.

Commit message:

feat: implement explainability (#20)
* create notebook and tweak keras and tensorflow version

* tweak dockerfile and packages

* add feature names after columntransformer and plot more

* tweak train test split to be acceptable for current patching and remove shap code to test predict

* add predict node, df drop and check for df input for prediction

* patch df iloc and set fit transform output as df

* fix patching of predict

* enable custom patching

* successfully patch shap explainer init and shap_values and depict in dag

* persist explainer and shapley values in inspection and pass to check

* import all relevant explainer packages

* add impl for lime pdp and ice

* fix explainer implementation

* add lime in dag representation

* add lime in dag representation, persist img

* pdp and ice dag representation

* ig dag representation

* ale dag representation

* dale dag representation

* dalex dag representation

* add documentation

* introduce precommit and add makefile commands

* fix tests

* restructure explainability modules and dag representation

* fix explainer inspection using sink operator, apply in ale

* apply explainer inspection to almost all methods

* apply explainer inspection to dalex as well

* fix dependencies

README.md, after:

mlinspect
================================

[![mlinspect](https://img.shields.io/badge/🔎-mlinspect-green)](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-yellowgreen.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=KTMNPBV1ZZ)](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-grafberger/mlinspect)

Inspect ML Pipelines in Python in the form of a DAG

## Run mlinspect locally

Prerequisite: Python 3.9

1. Clone this repository
2. Set up the environment

	`cd mlinspect` <br>
	`python -m venv venv` <br>
	`source venv/bin/activate` <br>

3. If you want to use the visualisation functions we provide, install graphviz which can not be installed via pip

    `Linux: ` `apt-get install graphviz` <br>
    `MAC OS: ` `brew install graphviz` <br>

4. Install pip dependencies

    `SETUPTOOLS_USE_DISTUTILS=stdlib pip install -e .[dev]` <br>

5. To ensure everything works, you can run the tests (without graphviz, the visualisation test will fail)

    `python setup.py test` <br>

## How to use mlinspect
mlinspect makes it easy to analyze your pipeline and automatically check for common issues.
```python
from mlinspect import PipelineInspector
from mlinspect.inspections import MaterializeFirstOutputRows
from mlinspect.checks import NoBiasIntroducedFor

IPYNB_PATH = ...

inspector_result = PipelineInspector\
        .on_pipeline_from_ipynb_file(IPYNB_PATH)\
        .add_required_inspection(MaterializeFirstOutputRows(5))\
        .add_check(NoBiasIntroducedFor(['race']))\
        .execute()

extracted_dag = inspector_result.dag
dag_node_to_inspection_results = inspector_result.dag_node_to_inspection_results
check_to_check_results = inspector_result.check_to_check_results
```

## Detailed Example
We prepared a [demo notebook](demo/feature_overview/feature_overview.ipynb) to showcase mlinspect and its features.

## Supported libraries and API functions
mlinspect already supports a selection of API functions from `pandas` and `scikit-learn`. Extending mlinspect to support more and more API functions and libraries will be an ongoing effort. However, mlinspect won't just crash when it encounters functions it doesn't recognize yet. For more information, please see [here](mlinspect/monkeypatching/README.md).

## Explainability Feature
In this project, explainability methods have been integrated in the mlinspect tool.
The methods that have been patched are a sample of what it can be actually integrated. However, more explanations can be viewed:
- [Dag Representation](features/explainability/docs/DAG_REPRESENTATION.md)
- [Inspection](features/explainability/docs/INSPECTION.md)

## Notes
* For debugging in PyCharm, set the pytest flag `--no-cov` ([Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34870962/how-to-debug-py-test-in-pycharm-when-coverage-is-enabled))

## Publications
* [Stefan Grafberger, Paul Groth, Julia Stoyanovich, Sebastian Schelter (2022). Data Distribution Debugging in Machine Learning Pipelines. The VLDB Journal — The International Journal on Very Large Data Bases (Special Issue on Data Science for Responsible Data Management).](https://stefan-grafberger.com/mlinspect-journal.pdf)
* [Stefan Grafberger, Shubha Guha, Julia Stoyanovich, Sebastian Schelter (2021). mlinspect: a Data Distribution Debugger for Machine Learning Pipelines. ACM SIGMOD (demo).](https://stefan-grafberger.com/mlinspect-demo.pdf)
* [Stefan Grafberger, Julia Stoyanovich, Sebastian Schelter (2020). Lightweight Inspection of Data Preprocessing in Native Machine Learning Pipelines. Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR).](https://stefan-grafberger.com/mlinspect-cidr.pdf)

## License
This library is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License.
